in this lesson we're going to look at
the functionality and usage of tags and
i'm going to use the same picture
because it actually applies here as well
if resource locks could be applied at a
subscription resource group and resource
well when i think about a tag
a tag is just metadata
it's a key
and then a value
and i can apply tags
at a subscription
at a resource group
and a resource level
now a key point about tags is metadata
it is not
inherited
if i create a tag on a resource group it
does not get inherited and applied to
the resources within the resource group
if i want that to happen i can use azure
policy
i could have a policy that says hey if
i'm missing a tag on this resource
copy the value from its parent resource
group or copy it from its parent
subscription
but
under normal circumstances
these are not inherited it's saying i
set directly on a subscription resource
group or resource and it is just
metadata
and typically as an organization i'll
have some scheme
of the tags that i want to use and for
their purpose i think about using them
for resource management maybe i'm
identifying the environment the type of
resource a business unit maybe for cost
management i want to tag a certain cost
center
might be security hey this is a
confidentiality
based resource or it's public maybe
regulatory i need to tag it with
regulatory compliance applies to these
resources
i can configure it through all the
normal means a template a power shell a
cli
i can use the portal
if i want to enforce
the creation of tags so if i want to
enforce this
well i would use azure policy which is
saying we're going to talk about but
this is how i could enforce the
requirement of the tag now be careful
with that
if i enforce
tags to be present and i don't specify
the tag or maybe i'm using some template
where i can't it won't let me create the
resource so just be careful of doing
that kind of enforcement
but they're just metadata on the
resource i can apply it to anything so
this kind of storage account we were
looking at hey look there's tags option
and you'll actually notice it has this
tag here cost center core id
now i didn't manually set that what
actually happened is i have an azure
policy that's automatically setting that
tag
but if i actually jump over and look at
for example my virtual machines
if i look at my demo vm
and i look at its particular tags
well here
let's have a quick look
you can see hey i've got the idea of
cost center
tag there
but i could go and maybe add additional
ones
maybe i want things like hey environment
and i could go and set a particular
environment maybe this is dev and it's
showing me just from the browser
perspective values i've used before but
it's just key values i might add in
something like for example owner
well i'll say that's me
and i can go through and create these
things that might matter to me
based on
what i think is useful things i might as
an organization want to search on
because i can search on these tags
remember i can also do building based on
these tags i might have for example os
so maybe i'll put in here okay windows
11.
so i can create all these tags and then
apply
so now these tags
exist on this particular resource so
just click out that and you can now say
hey these tags exist and so many
different things that i can interact
with
i can actually go and look and filter on
those tags also look at my maybe
subscriptions
and look at my dev subscription
and then look to all my resources
you can see there's just a ton of
different things here but you could add
a filter for example
and i might say hey a certain tag
i only want to see the tag where the os
equals
i could put in
see if i get it correctly windows 11
apply
so now i'm searching based on that tag
so it's metadata it's really there for
our management purposes
but it's super super powerful so
definitely recommend have a
policy in place for your organization of
which tags you want and if they're super
important you can use azure policy to
enforce
the values that you want them to
actually create and populate